APRIL 26, THE CRISIS IN UKRAIN
INTENSIFIES.
NEW DEMAND FROM PRO RUSSIA
SEPARATISTS, NEW SANCTIO
AGAINST RUSSIA
IN OUR SIGNATURE SEGMENT, WIDE
AREA SURVEILLANCE, EVERY PERSON,
EVERY CAR, MONITORED FROM TH
SKY.
>> IT ALLOWS US TO REWIND TIME
AND GO BACK AND SEE EVENTS THA
WE DIDN'T KNOW OCCURRED AT THE
TIME THEY OCCURRED
>> AND SOME OF THE BIGGEST
COMPANIES IN SILICON VALLE
SETTLE A BIG LAWSUIT
NEXT ON "PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND."
>> GOOD EVENING, THANKS FO
JOINING US
SECRETARY OF STATE JOHN KERR
AND RUSSIAN FOREIGN MINISTER
SERGIE LAVROV CONFERRED BY
TELEPHONE TODAY IN THE LATES
EFFORT TO DEFUSE THE CRISIS IN
UKRAINE.
RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS WHO OCCUPY
GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS ACROS
EASTERN UKRAINE THREE WEEKS AG
SAY THEY ARE WILLING TO RELEAS
EIGHT INTERNATIONAL MILITARY
OBSERVERS THEY DETAINED, BUT
ONLY IF OTHER SEPARATISTS IN
CUSTODY ARE ALSO FREED
RECENT SATELLITE IMAGES SHOW
TENS OF THOUSANDS OF RUSSIAN
TROOPS MASSED ALONG THE BORDER
WITH UKRAINE
THE PENTAGON SAID YESTERDAY THAT
RUSSIAN FIGHTER JETS HAVE MADE
ABOUT HALF A DOZEN INCURSION
INTO UKRAINIAN AIR SPACE
THE UNITED STATES AND IT
EUROPEAN ALIES ARE EXPECTED TO
ANNOUNCE A NEW ROUND OF SANCTION
AGAINST RUSSIA ON MONDAY
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS IN MALAYSIA
TONIGHT, HIS THIRD LEG OF HI
TRIP TO ASIA
PE WROOPED UP A TRIP TO ASIA
WITH A WARNING TO NORTH KOREA.
>> WE WILL NOT HESITATE TO USE
OUR MILITARY MIGHT TO DEFEND OUR
ALLIES AND WAY OF LIFE
OUR RESOLVE ONLY GROWS STRONGE
IN THE FACE OF AGGRESSION.
OUR ALLIANCE DOES NOT WAIVER, IT
JUST GAINS THE SUPPORT OF TH
REST OF THE WORLD.
>> IN AFGHAN TODAY, FIVE NAT
TROOPS WERE KILLED WHEN
BRITISH HELICOPTER CRASHED
THE CHOPPER WENT DOWN IN
KANDAHAR CITY IN THE SOUTHER
PART OF THE COUNTRY.
AN AFGHAN OFFICIAL ATTRIBUTE
THE CRASH TO TECHNICAL PROBLEMS.
THE NATIONALITIES OF THE VICTIMS
WERE NOT IMMEDIATELY RELEASED.
THE LATEST PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION
RESULTS OUT OF AFGHANISTAN
SHOWED THE FOREIGN MINISTE
ABDULLAH ABDULLAH IN THE LEA
WITH 45%, FOLLOWED BY EXWORL
BANK ECONOMIST WITH 31%.
THE TWO WILL COMPETE IN A RUNOFF
ELECTION SIX WEEKS FROM NOW.
BOTH CANDIDATES HAVE SAID THEY
WILL SIGN A SECURITY PACT WITH
THE UNITED STATES.
THE AGREEMENT WOULD PUT ABOU
10,000 AMERICAN TROOPS I
AFGHANISTAN BEYOND THE END O
THIS YEAR.
LESS THAN 24 HOURS AFTER A
TORNADO SWEPT THROUGH NORT
CAROLINA, OTHER PARTS OF THE
NATION COULD FACE SEVERE STORM
TONIGHT AND TOMORROW
THIS IS THE WEATHER CHANNE
FORECAST FOR TO FIGHT, THEN THIS
IS WHAT COULD BE IN STOR
TOMORROW
THAT TWISTER IN NORTH CAROLINA
LAST EVENING DAMAGED HUNDREDS OF
HOMES AND LEFT THOUSANDS WITHOUT
POWER, AT LEAST 30 PEOPLE WERE
REPORTED INJURED
WORD THAT THE SCIENTISTS WHOSE
WORK IN THE 1960s HELPED
ESTABLISH THE LINK BETWEEN
GENETICS AND OBESITY HAS DIED.
THE CANADIAN BORN DOUGLA
COLEMAN WAS 82
HE DISCOVERED THAT A BLOOD-BOR
SUBSTANCE COULD CURB HUNGER.
THAT DISCOVERY HELPED A TEAM I
ROCKEFELLER UNIVERSITY WORKING
IN THE 1990s IDENTIFIED GENE
LEPTI NAH SENDS SIGNALS TO THE
BRAIN THAT CONTROLS APPETITE
SOME WHO ARE OBESE HAVE PLENTY
OF LEPTIN BUT THEIR BOIES AR
SOMEHOW RESISTANT TO IT.
ANOTHER PIECE OF TITANIC
MEMORABILIA HAS SOLD FOR A LARGE
SUM OF MONEY
A LETTER WRITTEN BY A PASSENGE
ESTHER HART TO HER FAMILY IN
ENGLAND WENT FOR $200,000 TODA
DURING AN AUCTION IN LONDON.
IN THE LONDON SHE RELATES HO
THE SAILORS ABOARD THE SHI
DESCRIBED WHAT THEY CALLED THE
WONDERFUL PASSAGE UP TILL NOW.
HOURS LATER, THE SHIP STRUCK A
ICEBERG AND SANK
HART AND HER DAUGHTER WERE AMONG
SOME OF THE 700 SURVIVORS BU
HER HUSBAND DIED ALONG WITH MORE
THAN 1,500 OTHERS.
>>> LAST NIGHT ON "THE NEW
HOUR" YOU HEARD HOW THE NE
SANCTIONS PLANNED AGAINST RUSSIA
WOULD AFFECT THE ECONOMY THERE
BUT THAT MIGHT COME TO AT A COST
TO SOME OF THEIR BUSINES
PARTNERS IN THE WEST, MOST O
ALL GERMANY.
WE'RE JOINED TONIGHT I
WASHINGTON BY THE EXECUTIV
DIRECTOR OF THE TRANSATLANTI
ACADEMY.
AND STEVEN, IT'S CLEAR THAT TH
STAKES ARE HIGHER IN EUROP
RATHER THAN THE UNITED STATE
WHEN IT COMES TO THE SITUATION
WITH RUSSIA, BUT JUST FO
CONTEXT, CAN YOU TELL US WHA
ARE THE MOST SIGNIFICANT
ECONOMIC TIES BETWEEN EUROPE AND
RUSSIA
AND MOST SPECIFICALLY GERMAN
BECAUSE OF ITS POSITION AS A
POWER PLAYER
>> YES
WELL, FIRST OF ALL, WITH THE
GERMAN CASE, ENERGY IS A VER
BIG FACTOR
THEY GETN'T ABOUT A THIRD OF
THEIR ENERGY FROM RUSSIA, BOTH
GAS AND OIL.
THAT'S A MAJOR PLAYER.
ALSO, THE GERMAN ENERG
COMPANIES ARE VERY CLOSELY
LINKED IN WITH OTHER RUSSIAN
COMPANIES.
SO THERE'S A REALLY CLOS
INTERLOCKING BETWEEN THESE TWO
SECONDLY, THEY SELL A LOT OF
AUTOMOBILES AND MANUFACTURING TO
RUSSIA, ENGINEERING IS A BIG
THING.
I THINK UP WITH OF THE MOS
INTERESTING FACTS I'VE SEE
RECENTLY IS THE HEAD OF SEIMAN
WENT TO MOSCOW THE WEEK AFTE
THE ANNEXATION OF CRIMEA AND MET
WITH PUTIN AND ASSURED THEM THAT
THEY WOULD CONTINUE A LONG-TER
RELATIONSHIP WITH RUSSIA
THAT WAS A SIGNAL TO ME TH
GERMAN BUSINESS COMMUNITY IS
CLEARLY CONCERNED ABOU
MAINTAINING ITS INVESTMENTS AN
EVEN BROADENING THEM IN TH
FUTURE
>> ON THE FRONT PAGES OF THE NEW
YORK TIMES THERE'S AN ARTICL
THAT DETAILS JUST HOW CONCERNE
THE EUROPEAN BUSINESS COMMUNIT
IS ABOUT THESE SANCTIONS
WHAT IS IT THAT THE EUROPEAN
BUSINESS COMMUNITY WANTS AND
WHAT DOESN'T IT WANT
>> I THINK IT CAN LIVE -- IT'S
GOING TO HAVE TO LIVE WITH SOM
MODIFIED OR AT LEAST TARGETE
ZANGS, BUT NOT MAJOR SECTORA
SANCTIONS ON SECTORS LIKE ENERGY
OR FINANCE
IT'S NOT JUST GERMANY.
THERE'S A LOT OF RUSSIAN MONEY
IN LONDON, FOR EXAMPLE
THE ITALIANS HAVE A LOT OF
ENERGY CONNECTIONS WITH TH
RUSSIANS
SO IT GOES WAY BEYOND THAT
AND I THINK THAT'S THE CONCERN
THAT THEY HAVE
WHAT THEY'RE LOBBYING FOR NOW IS
TO STAY COOL
THAT'S WHAT COMPANIES ARE SAYING
TO OBAMA
DON'T MAKE THIS BIGGER THAN IT
HAS TO BE.
LET'S TRY NOT TO DO ANY LONG
TERM DAMAGE TO OUR ECONOMI
RELATIONSHIP, AND MOST
IMPORTANTLY, WE'RE JUST COMING
OUT OF AN ECONOMIC CRISIS, DON'T
PULL US BACK INTO ANOTHER ONE BY
A NEW FINANCIAL CRISIS WIT
RUSSIA
>> CHANCELLOR MERKEL WILL BE A
THE WHITE HOUSE ON FRIDAY.
LAST TIME SHE WAS IN THE STATES,
THERE WAS A STATE DINNER IN HE
HONOR.
NOW SHE'S COMING AFTER IT WA
REVEALED THE NSA HAS BEE
WIRETAPPING HER PHONE.
WHAT'S THE CONVERSATION GOING TO
BE LIKE?
DHA WHAT'S GOING TO BE THE FIRST
THING ON THE AGENDA AND WHAT'S
GOING TO BE THE SECOND THING O
THE AGENDA
>> IF IT'S MERKEL, SHE
DEFINITELY WANTS TO GET THE NS
THING BEHIND THEM AND SHE'LL
PRESS ON THAT A LOT.
BUT THIS BIG TRANSATLANTIC TRADE
AGREEMENT IS STALLING RIGHT NO
IN THE CONGRESS AND THE EU
SHE'S CERTAINLY GOING TO WANT TO
PUSH ON THAT
OBAMA WANTS TO GET SOME SENS
FROM HER ON HOW FAR RUSSIA WIL
GO ON RUSSIAN POLICIES AND
SANCTIONS.
HE KNOWS WITHOUT GERMANY BEING
CLOSELY ALIGNED WITH THE
AMERICAN POSITION, THE U.S. WILL
BE ISOLATED AND THE POLICY WIL
BE PRETTY INEFFECTIVE.
>> MERKEL HAS A RELATIONSHIP
WITH PUTIN AND OBAMA
HOW DOES HER RELATIONSHIP WITH
EACH MAN AFFECT THEI
RELATIONSHIP WITH EACH OTHER
>> THAT'S A GOOD POINT
IT SEEMS TO ME HAS A VERY BA
RELATIONSHIP WITH PUTIN.
SHE DOESN'T LIKE HIM AT ALL.
SHE THINKS HE'S OVERLY MACHO AND
KIND OF RIDICULOUS IN SOME WAYS.
SHE HAD A FAMOUS STATEMENT WHE
SHE WAS TALKING TO OBAMA ABOUT
PUTIN SAYING HE LIVES IN ANOTHER
WORLD.
AT THE SAME TIME, HE
RELATIONSHIP WITH OBAMA IS NOT
VERY GOOD.
SHE GOT INCENSED OVER TH
BUGGING OF HER PHONE AND LET
OBAMA KNOW IT.
AT THE SAME TIME, SHE'S
PRACTICAL BUSINESS-LIK
POLITICIAN, VERY REALISTIC AND
SHE KNOWS SHE CAN'T LET HE
PERSONAL EMOTIONS GET TO
INVOLVED IN THESE BIGGER
INTERSTATE RELATIONSHIPS
SO I WOULD SEE NEM HAVING A VERY
BUSINESS LIKE RELATIONSHIP
THEY ALSO RESPECT EACH OTHER A
VERY SMART, REALISTI
POLITICIANS.
I THINK OBAMA REALLY DEPENDS O
MERKEL RIGHT NOW FOR ADVICE ON
RUSSIA
SHE'S SPENDING SO MUCH TIM
TALKING TO PUTIN AND THE
RUSSIANS
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR YOU
TIME
>> MY PLEASURE, THANK YOU.
>> POLICE ALWAYS HAVE THE ACT TO
CONDUCT SURVEIL LAPSE ON
INDIVIDUAL SUSPECTS.
NOW OFFICERS CAN WATCH OVER AN
ENTIRE CITY.
THE CENTER FOR INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTING IN PARTNERSHIP WIT
KQED IN SAN FRANCISCO WENT T
ONE CITY CONDUCTING A SECRET
TEST OF THE TECHNOLOGY
AMANDA PIKE HAS THE STORY.
>> 911 WHAT IS YOUR EMERGENCY.
>> Reporter: THAT THIS MAY LOO
LIKE A TYPICAL SATELLITE MAP
BUT YOU'RE ACTUALLY WATCHING A
CRIME UNFOLD
>> SNATCHED MY MOM'S PURSE AWA
FROM HER AND RAN OFF
>> A ROBBERY IN A RESIDENTIA
STREET
ON THE LEFT, A MAN IS ABOUT TO
STEAL A NECKLACE FROM A WOMAN ON
THE SIDEWALK
>> I REMEMBER THIS CALL, IT WA
BASICALLY OUR TYPICAL MIDDLE AGE
WOMAN WALKING DOWN THE STREE
WITH A FRIEND OF HERS, HAVING
CONVERSATION
YOUNG MALE GRABS HER CHAIN OFF
OF HER NECK, RUNS DOWN THE
STREET AND DISAPPEARS.
>> DOUG KATANI IS A SERGEANT
WITH THE L.A. COUNTY SHERIFF'S
DEPARTMENT
IN TRADITIONAL POLICING, W
WON'T BE ABLE TO SOLVE THESE
TYPES OF CRIMES.
99% OF THE TIME, WE'RE NOT GOING
TO FIND ANYBODY.
>> BUT THE SHERIFF'S DEPARTMEN
WASN'T JUST RELYING ON
TRADITIONAL POLICING
FOR ALMOST TWO WEEKS IN 2012, IT
WATCHED COMPTON FROM THE SKY
TESTING A NEW TECHNOLOGY CALLE
WIDE AREA SURVEILLANCE
UNBEKNOWNST TO RESIDENTS ON TH
GROUND
>> WE BASICALLY KEPT IT PRETTY
HUSH-HUSH.
>> THE ARRAY OF THIS CAMERAS O
THIS PLANE CAN PRODUCE HIG
RESOLUTION IMAGES FOR UP TO SI
HOURS.
IT CAN TRACK EVERY PERSON AN
VEHICLE ON THE GROUND, BEAMING
BACK THE PICTURES IN REAL TIME
IT'S CITY-WIDE SURVEILLANCE ON
AN UNPRECEDENTED SCALE
>> WHAT WE ESSENTIALLY DO IS A
LIVE VERSION OF GOOGLE EARTH
WITH A FULL TIVO CAPABILITY.
IT ALLOWS US TO SEE EVENTS W
DIDN'T KNOW OCCURRED AT THE TIME
THEY OCCURRED.
>> ROSS McNUTT IS THE PRESIDEN
OF THE SURVEILLANCE SYSTEMS, THE
COMPANY THAT RAN THE TEST IN
COMPTON.
McNUTT DEVELOPED A SIMILAR
SYSTEM IN THE AIR FORCE THAT WAS
USED IN IRAQ AND AFGHANISTAN
>> IT WAS AT THE HEIGHT OF THE
IED PROBLEM, AND OUR OBJECTIVE
WAS TO BE ABLE TO FOLLOW THE
BOMBERS FROM WHERE THE BOMB WENT
OFF BACK TO THE HOUSE THAT THE
WERE BUILDING THE BOMBS AND BE
ABLE TO USE THAT
TOWARDS THE END OF THE TIME WHEN
THE SYSTEM WAS DEPLOYED, W
LOOKED AT IT AND SAID HEY,
THERE'S SOME REAL LA
ENFORCEMENT APPLICATION TO THIS.
>> McNUTT REDESIGNED THE
ORIGINAL SYSTEM TO MAKE IT MOR
AFFORDABLE FOR LOCAL LAW
ENFORCEMENT.
HE TESTED IN PHILADELPHIA,
BALTIMORE AND DAYTON WHERE H
SAID IT PROVIDED POLICE WITH
USEFUL LEADS ON SHOOTINGS, ARMED
ROBBERIES AND NARCOTICS CASES.
THE L.A. COUNTY SHERIF
DEPARTMENT CHOSE COMPTON AS
TEST SITE BECAUSE IT'S A COMPACT
CITY WITH A HIGH CRIME RATE.
>> ANYWHERE WITHIN THAT WHOL
AREA, WE CAN ZOOM DOWN LIVE OR
AFTER THE FACT TO RESOLUTION
JUST BARELY TO BE ABLE TO FOLLOW
PEOPLE
>> MY FIRST INITIAL THOUGHT WA
OH, BIG BROTHER.
BUT IF IT WAS SURVEILLANCE, YO
WOULD HAVE A ABILITY TO SOLVE
LOT OF THE UNSOLVABLE CRIMES
WITH NO WITNESSES, N
VIDEOTAPES, NO FINGERPRINTS.
>> FROM A MOBILE COMMAND CENTER,
McNUTT MONITORS 911 CALLS LIKE
THE ROBBERY CALL YOU HEARD
EARLIER.
>> THERE HAD BEEN A RASH O
CRIMES IN COMPTON WITH PEOPL
GETTING NECKLACES SNATCHED
SO THE L.A.'S SHERIFF DEPARTMENT
ASKED US TO INVESTIGATE THIS
>> THIS IS WHERE THE ROBBERY
OCCURRED
JUST WALKING DOWN THE STREET
SHE THINK HEADQUARTERS HE'S
REGULAR PEDESTRIAN
DOESN'T NOTICE ANYTHING ABOU
HIM.
GRABS THE NECKLACE OFF OF HE
NECK, RUNS DOWN THE STREET
>> WE WENT TO THE ADDRESS AND WE
WATCHED IT
AND WHAT WE SAW WAS SOMEBODY
GETTING OUT OF A CAR HERE, AND
THEN THE PERSON WALKS DOWN THE
STREET HERE WHILE THE CA
CIRCLES AROUND TO THE OTHER SIDE
OF THE BLOCK
WHAT YOU HAVE IS A PERSO
WALKING DOWN THE ROAD THERE AN
JUST A MOMENT HERE IS WHERE TH
NECKLACE IS STOLEN RIGHT THERE
AND THEN THE PERSON IS GOING T
RUN OFF QUICKLY TO GET BACK INTO
THE CAR THAT'S DRIVEN AROUND THE
BLOCK.
AND THEN WE CAN FOLLOW THA
PERSON OFF
>> THE SYSTEM DOESN'T HAVE THE
RESOLUTION TO IDENTIFY LICENSE
PLATE OR PEOPLE.
A PERSON IS JUST A PIXEL
ANALYSTS TRACK THE CAR AND REL
ON CAMERAS AT TRAFFIC LIGHTS O
GAS STATIONS TO CAPTURE
CLOSEUP IMAGE.
IN THIS CASE, THE SUSPECTS
EVENTUALLY DROVE OUT OF CAMERA
RANGE WITHOUT BEING IDENTIFIED
BUT THE EXPERIMENT STILL GAV
POLICE SOME VALUABLE LEADS
>> NOW, WE KNOW THAT THAT CA
WAS INVOLVED
SO THAT WAY OUR DEPUTIES CAN
START MONITORING THOSE STREETS
MAYBE THEY WILL SEE THAT CAR
WITH THE TWO BAD GUYS IN THERE
AND MAYBE WE CAN STOP THEM AND
ARREST HMM THEM.
>> SO FAR, NO POLICE DEPARTMEN
HAS PURCHASED THE SYSTEM WHICH
McNUTT SAYS COST UNDER $
MILLION, LESS THAN ONE POLIC
HELICOPTER
BUT THE TECHNOLOGY DOESN'T
PROVIDE THE KIND OF DETAILED
IMAGES THAT WOULD HOLD UP IN
COURT.
>> IT WAS A GREAT EXPERIMENT
BUT IN THE END, THE RESOLUTION
WASN'T ENOUGH FOR US TO USE IT
HERE ON A DAY TO DAY BASIS
>> WHILE SOME OFFICERS SAY THE
RESOLUTION ISN'T SHARP ENOUGH,
PRIVACY ADVOCATES WORRY THAT
WIDE AREA SURVEILLANCE I
ALREADY TOO POWERFUL
>> I THINK IT'S A HUGE CONCERN
I THINK IT'S ANOTHER EXAMPLE O
TECHNOLOGY ADVANCING AND
COMPLETELY OUTPACING THE
DEVELOPMENT OF THE LAW
>> Reporter: JENNIFER LYNCH IS
THE ATTORNEY WITH THE ELECTRONIC
FRONTIER FOUNDATION A CIVI
LIBERTIES ORGANIZATION BASED I
SAN FRANCISCO.
>> IF YOU ASK LAW ENFORCEMENT IF
WHAT THEY'RE DOING IS LEGAL,
THEY WILL SAY WELL, WE HAVE NO
EXPECTATION OF PRIVACY I
PUBLIC, BUT THE ABILITY TO
BACKTRACK THROUGH TIME, TO MAP A
CAR GOING FROM ONE LOCATION TO
ANOTHER IS COMPLETELY DIFFERENT.
WITH SURVEILLANCE CAMERA THA
CAN CAPTURE 2K5 SQUARE MILES
IT'S CAPTURING A LOT OF PEOPLE'S
ACTIVITIES WHO AREN'T DOIN
ANYTHING WRONG, WHO ARE INNOCENT
CITIZENS
AND THAT'S A PROBLEM
>> McNUTT BELIEVES THA
PERSISTENT SURVEILLANCE COUL
LEAD TO A LASTING DROP IN CRIME,
BUT ACKNOWLEDGES PRIVACY
CONCERNS
>> THERE IS A TRADEOFF BETWEEN
SECURITY AND SOME ASPECTS OF
PRIVACY.
BY THE FACT THAT WE'RE ACTUALL
ABLE TO PROVIDE USEFUL
INFORMATION AGAINST MULTIPLE
CRIMES AND CONTRIBUTE TO SOLVING
MURDERS TO THE CASE YOU SAW, A
NECKLACE SNATCH.
THAT ALLOWS US TO PROVIDE MORE
SECURITY WITH LESS LOSS OF
PRIVACY THAN ANY OF THE OTHE
OPTIONS THAT ARE OUT THERE
>> I'M SURE PEOPLE ONCE THEY
FIND OUT THAT THIS EXPERIMEN
WENT ON, THEY MIGHT BE A LITTL
UPSET.
BUT KNOWING THAT WE CAN'T SE
INTO THEIR BEDROOM WINDOWS, WE
CAN'T SEE INTO THEIR POOLS
THEIR SHOWERS.
YOU KNOW, I'M SURE THEY'LL B
OKAY WITH IT
THE AMOUNT OF TECHNOLOGY OUT I
TODAY'S AEJ WITH CAMERAS A
ATMs, EVERY 7-ELEVEN, EVER
SUPERMARKET, EVERY LIGHT POLE,
RED LIGHT CAMERAS.
PEOPLE HAVE JUST GOTTEN USED T
BEING WATCHED FOR THE MOST PART.
>> FOR NOW, DEPUTIES ARE BACK TO
PATROLLING THE STREETS O
COMPTON FROM THE GROUND.
>> WE'RE STICKING WITH OUR
TRADITIONAL POLICING TECHNIQUE
AND TACTICS, BOOTS ON TH
GROUND, DRIVE AROUND THE
NEIGHBORS.
STOPPING THE BD GUYS AND WAVIN
TO THE GOOD FOLKS.
>> IN THE MEANTIME, McNU
CONTINUES TO PITCH HIS
TECHNOLOGY TO PRELIMINARIE
ACROSS THE COUNTRY
IN A FEW YEARS, HE HOPES T
DOUBLE THE SYSTEM'S RANGE, T
WATCH OVER LARGE CITIES LIKE SAN
FRANCISCO OR WASHINGTON, D.C
WITH WIDE AREA SURVEILLANCE.
>> AS A RESULT OF THAT STORY B
THE CENTER FOR INVESTIGATIVE
REPORTING, NAQED, COMPTON'
MAYOR NOW WANTS THEM TO NOTIFY
THE PUBLIC BEFORE USING AN
MONITORING DEVICES
AMERICAN MORE ABOUT TH
MONITORING OF AMERICA.
VISIT NEWSHOUR.PBS.ORG
>>> APPLE, ADOBE, GOOGLE AND
INTEL HAVE SETTLED A LAWSUIT
ALLEGING THEY CO-LEWDED NO TOT
GO AFTER EACH OTHER'S EMPLOYEES,
HOLDING DOWN SALARIES.
THE SETTLEMENT WAS SETTLED FOR
$325 MILLION
THAT'S THE HEAD LEAP
-- HEADLINE.
WHAT DO THEY ALLEGE THES
COMPANIES DID.
DID ONE CEO CALL UP ANOTHER AN
SAY DON'T HIRE MY GUY?
>> WE'RE TALKING ABOUT 64,00
PEOPLE WHO JOINED THE CLASS IN
THIS LAWSUIT
IT WAS THE COMPANIES THAT YO
MENTIONED.
AND WHAT WE'RE TALKING ABOUT I
ESSENTIALLY AN UNWRITTEN
AGREEMENT, KIND OF A QUIET
UNDERSTANDING BETWEEN STEVE JOBS
AND ERIC SCHMIDT WHEN HE WAS CEO
OF GOOGLE AND THE CEO OF INTEL
AND SOME OF THE OTHERS
ENGINEERS ARE ESSENTIALLY TH
KEY PEOPLE IN A LOT OF THESE
THINGS
AND, YOU KNOW, JOB COMPETITION
IS VERY FIERCE
AND SO THERE WAS SOME,
ESPECIALLY COLORFUL E-MAILS THAT
HAVE EMERGED AS EVIDENCE IN TH
TRIAL.
AND I THINK THE COMPANIES DIDN'T
WANT TO SEE THOSE E-MAIL
EXPOSED.
THEY'VE BEEN EXPOSED BUT THERE
WOULD HAVE BEEN A LOT MORE,
THINK, INFORMATION, A LOT MORE
DISCLOSURE THAT WOULD HAVE BEE
JUST AS COLORFUL
>> IS THAT WHY THIS IS SETTLED
>> I THINK SO.
I THINK THIS IS BEING DESCRIBE
AS KIND OF A BARGAIN
THE PLAINTIFFS WERE SEEKING $3
BILLION.
HAD THEY PREVAILED, IT WOULD
HAVE ALLOWED DAMAGES, $9
BILLION.
MONEY THEY CAN AFFORD.
THEY COLLECTIVELY HAVE MORE THAN
$200 BILLION OF CASH ON THEI
BALANCE SHEETS BUT YOU DON'T T
HAVE TO PAY THAT KIND OF MONEY
BUT I WAS SURPRISED BY THE
AMOUNT
IT ACTUALLY WORKED OUT TO JUST A
FEW THOUSAND DOLLARS PER
EMPLOYEE
THE EMPLOYEES WILL TAKE A CUT OF
ABOUT $9 MILLION FOR THEIR
EXPENSES
AND THE LEAD PLAINTIFFS WILL
PROBABLY GET BACK LARGER
PAYMENT, BUT MOST OF THE PEOPL
WHO ARE MEMBERS OF THE CLASS
$3,000
>> ISN'T IT KIND OF TH
PRINCIPLE OF THE THING
IS YOU HAVE VERY, VERY TALENTE
PEOPLE WHO WANT TO BE PAID FOR
THEIR TALENT
AND ESSENTIALLY WHAT THESE
COMPANIES DID WAS WE'RE NO
GOING TO NECESSARILY PAY YOU FOR
ALL YOUR TALENT.
>> EXACTLY
THESE COMPANIES ARE ALWAYS FIRST
TO TALK ABOUT HOW QUICKLY, YOU
KNOW, THEY WANT TO WORK IN A
UNFETTERED MARKETPLACE AND NOT
HAVE ANY EXTRA REGULATIO
HOLDING THEM DOWN.
AND YET THROUGH THIS KIND OF -
THE EVIDENCE THAT'S BEEN SHOWN
SO FAR HAS SHOWN THEY COLLUDED
TO NOT EXTEND THAT TO THEI
EMPLOYEES.
THE JUSTICE DEPARTMENT BROUGHT
THIS TO LIGHT IN 2009.
AND THEY SETTLED IN 2010
SO THESE COMPANIES HAVE BEEN
OPERATING UNDER SORT OF A -- I
WOULDN'T CALL IT A CONSENT
DECREE, BUT IT'S WITHOUT ANY
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
IT EXPIRES IN 2015
THERE MAY BE HIGHER WAEJS.
IT'S MUCH MORE FREE WORK PLACE
MOOD BETWEEN WORK PLACE.
>> THIS COMES AN AN INTERESTIN
TIME
WE HEARD ABOUT THE PROTESTS IN
FRONT OF THE BUSES THAT FERR
PEOPLE TO FAIROUS CAMPUS
PS .PEOPLE HAVING THEIR GOOGLE
GLASSES RIPPED OFF OF THEI
FACES.
SMART UH CARS BEING OVERTURNED
IN CALIFORNIA.
IT'S WHAT WIRED MAGAZINE
SILICON VALLEY NEEDS TO LOSE THE
ARROGANCE OR RISK DESTRUCTION.
OVERSTATED OR IS IT REALLY A
PROBLEM?
>> THERE IS A SOCIAL MOMEN
THERE IS A BIG POLITICAL MOMENT.
SENSITIIIES ARE HIGH AND IT'
ANOTHER REASON WHY THESE
COMPANIES WOULD RATHER SETTL
AND PUT THIS THING TO REST AND
WRITE A RELATIVELY SMALL CHECK
THE APPEARANCES IN LIGHT OF THIS
SOCIAL AND POLITICAL MOMEN
THAT'S OCCURRING RIGHT NOW, TH
OPTICS HAVE BEEN ABSOLUTEL
DEVASTAING
THE FACT THAT HAVE THEY HAD THIS
UNWRITTEN AGREEMENT TO BASICALLY
HOLD DOWN SALARIES
>> WHEN THE CEOs ARE MAKING SO
MUCH MONEY AND THE COMPANIES ARE
MAKING SO MUCH MONEY
THANKS SO MUCH
>> YOU BET
>>> AND NOW A NEW LOOK AT TH
PIONEERING WORK OF THE LAR
ARTIST ANDY WARHOL
HE WAS TRYING TO MAKE ART ON THE
COMPUTER IN THE 1980s.
IT WAS UNHEARD OF A FEW YEAR
AGO.
>> Reporter: IT'S RECOGNIZABLY
AN ANDY WARHOL
AN ORIGINAL REWORKED VERSION O
ONE OF HIS MOST FAMOUS IMAGE
BUT CREATED DIGITALLY.
ONE OF 12 THAT WERE FOUND AFTE
SOMETHING OF A TECHNOLOGICAL
TREASURE HUNT.
AND THEY MAY NEVER HAVE BEEN
DISCOVERED HAD IT NOT BEEN FOR
THIS
>> YOUTUBE PICTURES IN 1985 ON A
BASIC HOME COMPUTER.
COMMISSIONS FOR AN ADVERT BY A
COMPANY WHO WANTS TO SHOW OF
THE GRAPHIC CAPABILITIES O
THEIR NEW COMMODORE DEVICE
THREE YEARS AGO, AN ARTIST
STUMBLED ON THIS FOOTAGE AND
BEGAN INVESTIGATING WHETHE
THERE WAS MORE WARHOL COMPUTER
ART.
HE FOUND A CACHE OF FLOPPY DISKS
BUT FORMATS THAT WERE OBSOLETE
WITH THE HELP OF FORENSI
COMPUTER EXPERTS, THE IMAGES
WERE EVENTUALLY RETRIEVED 56
MORE THAN 30 YEARS OF BEIN
TRAPPED INSIDE
TODAY'S DIGITAL ARTISTS BELIEV
HAD HE STILL BEEN ALIVE, WARHO
WOULD BE LEADING THE FIELD WIT
THIS TYPE OF ART
>> TO KNOW THAT WARHOL HAD THE
BRAVERY AND THE COURAGE TO G
INTO THIS FORMAT AND REALLY SE
WHAT WOULD HAPPEN AND WHAT H
COULD PRODUCE.
AND SOME OF THEM ARE QUITE
PRIMITIVE, BUT THERE ARE A
COUPLE THAT REALLY MADE IT
>> THE WORKS WILL NOW GO O
DISPLAY AT THE ANDY WARHOL
MUSEUM, CELEBRATING AN ARTIS
WHO HAS MORE THAN HIS 15 MINUTES
OF FAME.
>> JOIN US ON AIR AND ON LIN
TOMORROW
MAKING A SENSE OF THE SHOWDOWN
BETWEEN RUSSIA AND UKRAINE, TH
LONG COMPLICATED HISTORY THA
LED UP TO THE CURRENT CRISIS
THAT'S IT FOR THIS EDITION O
PBS "NEWS HOUR WEEKEND."
I'M ALLISON STEWART.
THANK YOU FOR WATCHING